changequote(`[[', `]]')
define(AUTHOR, Celad Evra)
define(TITLE, Expoundite)
define(SUBTITLE, Making sense of and making peace with worlds)
\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename expoundite.info
@settitle Expoundite
@c %**end of header

@copying
本文档是 AUTHOR 的个人网站。观点为个人所有，不代表任何集体或职业立场。

Copyright @copyright{} 2009--syscmd(date +"%Y") AUTHOR

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts. A
copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
Documentation License".
@end quotation

@end copying

@titlepage
@title TITLE
@subtitle SUBTITLE
@author AUTHOR
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying

@end titlepage
@headings off
@ifplaintext
@c @titlepage-like contents for plain text output
TITLE

SUBTITLE

AUTHOR
@end ifplaintext

@ifnothtml
@contents
@end ifnothtml

@documentdescription
expoundite.net. personal website. essays. blog.
@end documentdescription


@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Colophon
@insertcopying

@menu
* Blog::   记录与观察
* 评论::   书、影、音、游戏，及关于评论的评论
* Concept Index::
* Name Index::
@end menu
@end ifnottex

@node Blog
@unnumbered Blog

@include blog.texi

@include reviews.texinfo

@node Concept Index
@unnumbered Concept Index

@printindex cp

@node Name Index
@unnumbered Name Index

@defindex nm
@printindex nm

@bye
