@node 2006-02-14
@unnumberedsec What's happening today, academically

I talked with Michael about the topic of the dissertation. As the research manager of Peak District National Park says pine invasion is not really an issue in the park, I think I need to change the topic to another invasive species, or follow the Moors for the Future research topic, to model Sphagnum propagation (which one to model is another question). I will call Dr. Bonn tomorrow to discuss this.

Besides, I got the feedback of my preliminary proposal by Roy. He wrotes that I need to make comments of the model, instead of only maps. I think I will discuss fire or air pollution disturbance and management options using the model and results. Another problem is how to test the model. I did not think about this until recent days. Historical data of species and disturbance distribution are needed as well as new ones.

My PARs for last term is acceptable, though not as good as I expected. It is only Merit level. I need to get higher scores this term to reach a Distinct Level. The main problems in the exams and assignments are lack of critiques and thorough understanding of the questions. Therefore I need to pay attention to these parts. It may need effort to be critical and one has to be aware whether he is critical or not. People tend not to be critical due to their slackiness.

The group began work today by sending out questionnaires. We had 51 questionnaires today, which is quite a success. Tomorrow I will talk to Kerry about observation. This part has problems remain and I need to refine it. The writeup has to be pended as the method is not solidified yet.

I got confirmation letter for Notts saying that they got my application pack finally. However I need to submit the RP for ORS application in 2 or 3 days. I will try to find Roy tomorrow. If that does not work I will need to write a final version of the dissertation tomorrow.
